.\" manpage for rasm-arch
.\" Contact aliciagm85+yakabikaj@gmail.com to correct errors or typos
.TH rasm-arch 1 "1 June 2023" "version 1.2.1" "rasm-arch manpage"
.SH NAME
rasm-arch - convert Arabic-scripted text to archigraphemes
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B rasm-arch
.RI "[" OPTION "]..."
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rasm-arch
performs rasm conversion, also knows as archigraphemic conversion, of any Arabic-stripted text.
.PP
The input must be an Arabic-cripted text. Default output is the original token and the archigrapemic conversion of each token in both in Latin and Arabic, separated by tab. The system can also provide a complete transliteration of the input Arabic-scripted text, referred as paleo-orthographic representation.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --text TEXT
Input stream. Mutually exclusive with --quran.
.TP
.B -q, --quran RANGE
Index range s[:v[:w]]-s[:v[:w]], e.g. "1:1:1-3:2:2". Mutually exclusive with --text.
.TP
.B -s, --source {tanzil-simple, tanzil-uthmani, decotype}
Source Quran to use. Default is "tanzil-simple".
.TP
.B -n, --norm
Normalise clusters of Arabic Presentation Forms-A (FB50–FDFF) and Arabic Presentation Forms-B (FE70–FEFF) to decomposed variants [only for --text].
.TP
.B -p, --paleo
Add paleo-orthographic representation to the output.
.TP
.B -b, --blocks
Return the result in letterblocks istead of words.
.TP
.B --only_rasm
Do not print start of rub el hizb (۞ U+06de) nor place of sajda (۩ U+06e9) [only for --quran]
.TP
.B -a, --unstable_alif
Remove fatha+alif in non final positions as it is unstable. It works with text option only.
.TP
.B -u, --uniq
List of unique letterblocks, their number of occurences and the list of words where they appear.
.TP
.B --sep
Indicate desired separator for text output [Default TAB].
.TP
.B --json
Return output in json format.
.TP
.B --version
Prints the program version number and exits successfully.
.TP
.B -h
Prints program usage information and exits successfully.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
.RS
.BR $ " echo فوو | rasm "
.br
.BR $ " rasm -q 1:1 --blocks --source tanzil-simple "
.br
.RE
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Alicia González Martínez (aliciagm85+yakabikaj@gmail.com)
.SH COPYRIGHT
MIT LICENSE
.PP
Copyright (c) 2023 Alicia González Martínez and Thomas Milo. First created on 1 October 2022.
.PP
This document is part of the rasm-arch software.
.PP